In this lecture we will learn how to animate HVM elements using C S S S S allows us to animate the different
CSSA properties on an element similar to how we looked at CSSA transitions animations are based on keyframes
and we can animate as many elements properties as we want as many times as we want.
First let's say at an opening and closing style tag to our code to create an animation we first write
at keyframes followed by a name for our animation.
Next comes an opening and closing curly brace and side of these curly braces goes the code for the animation
the from end to key words specify the first and last frames of the animation.
For this example we will specify that the animation will go from a background color of green to a background
color of blue.
Let's say I add an h m l development to our Web page so that we have an object to animate the next step
after we have the code for the animation is to specify this animation on an element using the animation
Name property.
The last thing that we need to do is specify duration for animation using the animation duration property
just like transition's an animation without a duration will not play since the default value for the
animation duration property is zero.
Let's go to the web browser and run our code as you can see our animation plays for the specified duration
of three seconds.
Let's jump back to the editor we can add a delay to the animation using the animation delay property.
Let's give our animation a delay of one second and then go to the web browser and run our code as you
can see there is a 1 second delay before animation starts playing.
Let's go back to the editor.
We can also specify the number of times that an animation should run to do this.
We use the animation iteration count property.
Let's use the animation iteration count property and specify that our animation should be run three
times.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code as you can see our animation plays three times.
Then we will go back to the editor.
Let's change the animation iteration count back to 1 for the next few examples.
The animation direction property allows us to specify whether we want the animation to be played forwards
or backwards a value of normal will specify the animation place forwards.
This is the default to play the animation backwards.
We can give the animation direction property of value of reverse.
Let's use the animation direction property to make our animation play backwards.
Then we will go to the web browser and write our code as you can see our animation plays backwards since
we specified an animation direction of reverse.
Let's go back to the editor if the animation direction property is a value of alternate the animation
will play forwards and then backwards.
We need to give the animation iteration property a value of two or more to make the animation play multiple
times.
We will give this property a value of two.
Let's change the animation direction to alternate and then run our code in the browser as you can see
our animation placed forwards and then backwards.
Let's go back to the editor of value of alternate reverse rule make the animation play backwards and
then forwards.
Let's give our animation and animation direction of alternate reverse and then run our code as you can
see our animation plays backwards and then forwards
then we will go back to the editor.
We can also specify the each type or speed curve of our animation by using the animation timing function
property of value of eases is the default and we'll make the animation start slow speed up in the middle
and then and slow a value of Lennier will give the animation a constant speed.
Let's use the animation timing function property and specify a value of linear then we will go to the
web browser and write our code as you can see our animation plays at a constant speed.
Let's go back to the editor a value of ease and we'll make the animation start out slowly we will give
our animation a timing function of ease in and then run our code in the browser.
As you can see the animation starts out slowly and then picks up speed.
Let's jump back to the editor of value of ease out to make the animation.
And slowly we will change our animation timing function that ease out and then run our code in the web
browser.
As you can see the animation goes slower at the end.
Let's go back to the editor an animation film showed us how the animation affects an element before
and after the animation is played by the fool before and after an object is animated it will go back
to its original state the animation film mode property lets us specify if an object could be affected
by the from or to states of the animation of value of forward's means that the animation will keep the
styles set by the last key frame of the animation.
Lets specify an animation film motor forwards and run our code.
As you can see our elementis colored blue after the animation based on the color.
The last key frame of the animation.
Let's jump back to the editor of value of backwards means that the animation will keep the style set
by the first key frame of the animation during the delay period before the animation is played.
We will give our give an animation film motiv backwards.
In this case our div will become the color green.
Since that is the color we used in the first keyframe of our animation to confirm this.
Let's go to the web browser and wrote our code as you can see our give is green on our Web page before
the animation starts.
Let's go back to the editor.
An animation film of both means that for the delay period before the animation the style specified in
the first frame will be applied to the object and also the stars of the last frame of the animation
will be applied to the object after the animation is finished playing.
Let's give our given animation film more of both and then run our code in the web browser as you can
see Argive is green before the animation starts and blue after the animation and then we will go back
to the editor we can specify whether the animation is running or pause using the animation place state
property giving this property value of pause will pause the animation.
Let's give our divin animation place state of pause.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code as you can see our animation is not playing because
we specified that it is pause.
Let's go back to the editor of value of running means that the animation is running.
Let's change the pause value to running and then go to the web browser and run our code as you can see
our animation is now running due to the animation place.
We gave it let's jump back to the editor the animation properties a shorthand property which we can
use to specify 8 animation properties at once.
The animation properties that you can specify using the animation property or animation name animation
duration animation timing function animation delay animation iteration count animation direction animation
film mode and animation place.
Let's condense our current animation by using the shorthand property animation to specify all of these
values at once.
To make sure we didn't break anything by changing the code.
Let's run it in the web browser as you can see the animation plays perfectly in the next letter.
We will learn about 2-D animation and see SS.